# Team7
Wearable Computers for Quantification of Lower Back Disorders

Low back disorders (LBD) are a very common disorder where the muscles and the bones of the back are involved.It affects about 40% of the people at some point in their lives, which results in a substantial cost to society in terms of healing the patient.Although society knows about this common problem, in general, there has been little to no progress in the control of LBDs. This is because many assessment tools of low back disorders are subjective. The current technology would only facilitate the tracking of the recovery and help document the appropriateness of treatments.
	To improve LBD treatment strategies, it is desired to quantify and track the changes within the lower back area. Since the quantification of Low Back Disorder has been regarded as a key to functional restoration, our team seeks to develop a system of wearable electronics that will be used to test the severity of lower back issues and quantify the results. This will provide measurements to aid the physician’s decision to proceed with or decline surgery. This is important because without a quantitative measure of low back status, the identification of back pain is difficult. In addition, this may provide a benchmark of when the patient is ready to return to a job without increasing the risk of worsening the disorder.
	To approach this problem, our team will use two sets of very common sensors, which are motion sensors and physical sensors. For our motion sensors, we will use the Kinect to study the movement of the patient and analyze it. However, this approach has its drawbacks. For instance, motion sensors cannot detect small changes in the body while the patient is moving, and this will require an accurate measure. That is why we will use the physical sensor to overcome the limitations of the motion sensor, and complement each other.

